Summer Work for grade 9 to grade 10 (5 points):
1. The book I have chosen is “Someone is watching you” by Tess James-Mackey
2. My reader’s diary (reading log)
Pages 1 to 100 - Nia, Deon (Nia’s baby brother), Kayla (Nia’s little sister), and their mother went to the Prison Funhouse. Nia’s mother hates her. Nia’s friend group just kicked her out (it included her boyfriend, Scott), so in order to get back in one of her friends, Olivia dared Nia to get lost, in order to get back in the friend group. Nia decided to use that dare to explore the Prison Funhouse, which was just a prison a year ago, turned into a children’s soft play center. Nia went to the “Prisoner wing access. No visitors.” room, she sent some photos, but the rest of the group didn’t believe her, so in order to make them believe her, she sent them a photo of the cells, but Olivia didn’t believe her. While Nia was in the cell she jumped into, she found a book whose cover page read “Inmate Disciplinaries”, it documented the punishments given to prisoners (for actions they did inside the prison), the name “A. Warren” appeared over and over again, each time he was given 5 days in isolation, every time he got out of it he did something, seemingly just to get back into isolation, until 27.08.21 the final entry on the book, he instigated a brawl, got stabbed and died, the fact that he died shocked Nia, who thought the world would be a better place without him, but after seeing the entry citing his death, Nia was shocked by this, Nia’s friend group however, simply laughed about it, and Olivia wanted a picture of Nia in one of the cells. Nia was going through the cells looking for a good cell to get a picture in, until she got to the “Isolation cell”, she sent a photo of it’s sign, but when she went inside to look at what was inside she saw there were clothes on the bed, and there were also some haikus (שירים קצרים) drawn on the walls about the guards, signed by A. Warren, all she could find about him was a small article about his death.
Pages 101 - 200 - Inside the isolation room, Nia found that whoever was there, arranged “Dead Girl.” using cut text from Daisy Evans’s missing poster (Daisy Evans is someone from Nia’s school), Kayla sneaked on Nia, and scared her, turns out that whoever was in the isolation room, was also feeding rats. The rats scared Nia, so she decided that she and Kayla needed to get out of there, but Kayla wasn’t willing to tell her how she got there, and she didn’t know of any way that Kayla could get out with her, so she texted their mother, who didn’t believe her. Nia suddenly heard footsteps, and Kayla suggested that they should go to a corridor, the one at the other end of the cell block, they closed the door behind them, they couldn’t see anything for a while, and when they finally could see something, they found the hanging room and the courtyard, Nia noticed that her battery was low, but Nia still took a photo of the hanging room’s sign and sent it, Olivia however was still not impressed, so Nia tried to take a photo of the hanging room itself, but when she opened the door, it lead to another corridor, so she went up the stairs, when she reached the top of the stairs, she saw 4 doors, the last one was unmarked, she went to the last room, it was the hanging room, it had a warning sign saying “Floor Unsafe”, but Nia ignored it, and she sent a photo of the room itself to her friends, but Olivia still didn’t believe her, and told her she get a photo of herself with the rope around her neck, in order prove it wasn’t from the internet, so Nia tried that, but just before Nia could wrap the rope around her neck, the floor broke, and she fell down, but managed to survive without any harm, which made Nia realize something, she didn’t need friends that didn’t care about her, so she went back to were Kayla was supposed to be, but she wasn’t there, so Nia searched the entire prison, except the isolation cell and the parts leading up to it, but she couldn’t find Kayla, instead the Ratman (The one who was living in the isolation cell) found her, Nia attacked him with her phone, but as it turns out the Ratman was Daisy Evens, Nia stopped, but then started threatening Daisy, in order to find Kayla, however Daisy didn’t know where Kayla was either, so Nia stopped again, but Daisy was willing to help Nia look for Kayla, turns out Nia’s friends weren’t from the same year as her, and while they were considered “popular”, no one liked them, and after Nia ditched all her other friends for them, she turned from being liked by people and being popular, to being “unpopular”, hated, according to Daisy. While Daisy and Nia were looking for Kayla, Daisy told Nia that about 2 months before Nia and Scott became official, she and Scott had a thing, but at one point in their relationship, without Daisy’s consent, Scott tried to kiss Daisy, Daisy tried to push him away, but it didn’t work, and she ended up biting him, the day after that Scott and his friends shamed Daisy, but no one ever did anything to them for that. Daisy and Nia continued to search for Kayla, and Nia started to suspect that Daisy knew where Kayla was, because whenever Nia asked Daisy about Kayla, she seemed to give her fake answers, but Nia started to trust Daisy more and more as the search went on, after some time Nia asked Daisy why she went to the prison, Daisy told Nia that Andrew Warren was her dad, she lived with him until he got locked up, and her mother took her, as it turns out the poster of Daisy with holes where her should be, was Daisy’s doing, after some time, Nia asked what Andrew Warren did, and Daisy said that he was locked up for “anti-social behavior”, the charge was due to him having noises in his head (according to Daisy).
Pages 201 to 292 - Apparently Daisy didn’t know why her father (Andrew Warren) died, after Nia revealed to Daisy the log book, they had a bit of falling out, due to Nia sharing photos of the log book and making fun of Daisy’s dad, but after Daisy suggested that it would’ve been better, if Nia died when she got there, she went back on her words, and they apologized to each other, Daisy said that the stuff written about her dad were lies, and that someone in the prison wanted him dead, therefore he wanted to get into the isolation cell, in order to be safe. A laughter interrupted Daisy and Nia’s talk, so they ran out of there, locked themselves in another room, also Daisy kept a corpse in there, after some time Kayla shouted out to Nia, so Nia unlocked the door, and reunited with Kayla, turns out the masked man who laughed before, and kept Kayla captive until now, just arrived there and he blew a pigeon’s head off to scare the sisters, and then he started laughing, so Nia planned to even put her life on the line for Kayla’s safety, by buying her time while fighting him, suddenly Scott appeared, as it turns out the masked man was one of Nia’s friends, Max. Nia’s friends were there the entire time, and all of this was just a massive prank, which Nia was not really amused by, considering her little sister was kidnapped for this, and then Scott hit her, because she didn’t want to stay with them, and then Olivia and Chole came out too, turns out Chole is the one who brought Kayla down there, but they weren’t willing to let them out of there, because as it turns out they killed the dead guy (Sam) Nia found, he was homeless, and bought them booze, until they had a party and tried to tattoo Olivia’s name on his chest, which caused him to threaten to call the police on them, so they killed him and were going to do the same to Nia, and then Daisy joined them, as it turns out she was not only a part of this but also the mastermind of it all, and was still with Scott, as it turns out though, it wasn’t the first time they did that, they were also the ones who stuck Kayla inside a shed, because they found her after Nia threw a party, to which they were invited, but before Olivia could finish talking, Nia broke her nose, and threatened to hurt her even more, if the others would try anything, and pushed Kayla into a cell, closing the door behind her and letting her escape, but by doing so she couldn’t hurt Olivia anymore, so the Scott and Max attacked her, but right after she started blacking out, Max was bleeding on the ground, and Daisy was trying to pull Nia away and pointing an hammer at Olivia, Daisy and Nia ran into another cell and locked the door behind them, but Scott had the key for that door, so they ran away again, found Kayla and were going to use the sewers to escape, but Daisy wasn’t willing to go with them, because they were going to blame Sam’s death on her and kill her, if she ever escaped, as it turns out Daisy even tried to stop them from killing Sam, but Nia managed to convince her to come along, so they got to the georgian era sector of the prison, they were going through a part that was caved in, everyone managed to get through it, except Nia who got stuck, and while she was stuck, Scott got there and told Kayla to get there before he’ll hurt Nia, but Nia told Kayla to escape, so Scott started choking Nia, but she managed to get a wand, which she jabbed into his eye, but it only made him angrier, so she used Daisy’s hammer to drive the wand deeper into Scott’s face a couple of times, but she stopped before she killed him, and then managed to get through the caved in part, and then they got out into a train station (it was used in the georgian era, in order to transport criminals from the prison to australia), the security guard there told them to go away, due to how dangerous it was there, until he saw Nia’s state. Nia woke up in her bedroom, and hugged Kayla, the prison was closed, as it was not an ideal place for a children’s play center, Max was dead, Scott was in an hospital, Chloe and Olivia were missing, Daisy had a new foster carer, Pam, Nia managed to reconcile with her old friends, but Scott, Chloe and Olivia weren’t in jail yet, and Suddenly she got a new message from Olivia, the message was “You’re going to pay.”, and that is the end of the story.
The movie I’ve chosen is “The secret life of Walter Mitty”.
part 1, “Reading”:
new words: attractive מושך, avoid להתחמק, bargain להתמקח, cave מערה, contain להכיל, curious סקרן, entertainment בידור, escape(v) בריחה, excitement התרגשות, explore לחקור, explorer חוקר, genuine אמיתי, ground קרקע, hideout מחבוא, identity זהות, illegal בלתי חוקי, legal חוקי, museum מוזיאון, overcrowded, pipe, public(n) ציבור, skeleton שלד, system מערכת, tour(n,v) טיול, לטייל, tunnel מנהרה, underneath מתחת, warn הזהרה, in case במקרה, on your own בכוחות עצמך.
A)
2 - You can warn: a customer, a competitor.
3 - A person can escape from: a guard, a concentration camp.
4 - You can avoid:  a conflict, an accident.
5 - You can explore: a rainforest, a kingdom.
6 - You can tour: a cave, a museum.
C)
2 - There are no chairs at the concerts in the park. We’ll sit on the ground.
3 - The train to the North goes through a long tunnel.
4 - He doesn’t like to work in a group. He prefers to do things on his own.
5 - Customers are satisfied with our new system for ordering online.
6 - The police still don’t know the identity of the murder victim.
7 - The crowd screamed with excitement when the pop star came on stage.
8 - Is it illegal for a 14-year-old to drive?
9 - Parents should always leave emergency numbers for a babysitter in case there is a problem.
10 - The criminals had an hideout in the mountains where they thought the police couldn’t find them.
D.1) disappeared, author, curious,tricks, unlikely, warn, on your own.


        Paris under the ground: D) 1)
                1 - People who love to explore the secret world under the city of Paris.
                2 - Paris under the ground has tunnels instead of streets, and caves instead of houses.
                3 - Cataphiles use secret names underground because exploring the underground tunnels is illegal.
                4 - The three types of entertainment that cataphiles enjoy under the city are secret nightclubs, restaurants and cinemas.
                5 - The objects found by cataphiles include a mysterious skeleton that had long arms and short legs, antique guns, jewelry, and diamonds.
                6 - You mustn’t explore the catacombs on your own because a tour of the catacombs is not for the faint-hearted.
        2) 
                1 - The bunkers are connected to the nazi occupation of France (from may 1940 to december 1944) during the second world war.
                2 - The hideouts are connected to the French resistance to nazi occupation (from may 1940 to december 1944) during the second world war.
                3 - The graffiti is from the French Revolution.
        3)
                1 - The Metro is a bargain, because for the price of one ticket, you can ride on the train all day.
                2 - In 1785, Paris’ cemeteries were overcrowded, which smelled and caused the spread of disease.
                3 - The advice that’s given to people who want to visit the Paris Sewer Museum is to bring a scented handkerchief, due to the smell.
E)
1) to make people curious about Paris under the ground.
2) tunnels - streets, caves - houses, cataphile identities - real names.
3) I think travelers should avoid the Metro during certain hours, because it’s less comfortable to be in an overcrowded train, therefore I think that travelers should avoid the Metro during crowded hours (when people get to/ back from work).
4) There is a guard at the exit from the catacombs, in order to ensure that people don’t take any souvenirs.
5) a - the Catacombs.
    b - the Metro.
    c - the Paris Sewer Museum.
A)
1 - a real bargain, cheap.
2 - full of people, overcrowded.
3 - explorer, traveler.
4 - tunnel, area.
5 - entertainment, excitement.
6 - below, underneath.
7 - curious, excited.
8 - coping, struggling.
9 - inappropriate, impolite.
Part 2, “Grammar”:
        A.1)
   1. “Stand here”, said => told us to stand there.
   2. “Don’t be late”, said => warned us not to be late.
                A.2) 1, 2, 4, 5.
                A.3) 
   1. המורה אמר לנו לעמוד שם.
המדריך הזהיר אותנו לא לאחר.
   2. In Hebrew, in order to transform direct speech into reported speech, we remove the quotation marks, and change the time or place expression.
   3. Yes, except for the addition of the “to” or “not to”.
                A.1) 
   1. When I’m eating.
   2. When I’m coding something, with other people.
   3. When I’m on a tour.
   4. When I’m listening to music.
                A.2)
   1. The direct command was: “Put it back!”. I removed the quotation marks, and added the word “to”.
   2. The direct command was: “Don’t touch anything.”. I removed the quotation marks, and changed the time expression.
   3. The direct command was: “Turn off the music”. I removed the quotation marks, added the word “to”, and changed the time expression.
   4. The direct command: “Don’t climb on the table”. I removed the quotation marks, added the word “not to”, and changed the time expression.
                B) 
                        2) to stand
                        3) not to eat
                        4) told
                        5) not to drive
                C) 
                        2) The teacher told us not to talk during the exam.
                        3) Karen begged her dad to buy her ice cream.
                        4) The teacher instructed the class to open their books in page 8.
                        5) The dentist ordered me to open my mouth.
        part 2-b Study, “Reported Questions”:
                D.1)
   1. “Are you hungry?” => if I was hungry.
   2. “Are you taking our tour later?” => whether I was taking their tour later.
   3. “Did you go to a movie yesterday?” => if we had gone to a movie the day before.
   4. “When will the store open?” => wanted to know when the store would open.
   5. “Where have you put my book?” => where he had put my book.
                D.2) 1, 3, 4, 5.
                D.3) 
   1. Yes/No questions.
   2. Yes/No and Wh- questions.
                D.4) 
   1. אמא שאלה אותי אם אני רעב.
המדריך שאל אותי אם אני בא להדרכה שלהם מאוחר יותר.
החבר של שאל אותי אם הלכנו לסרט אתמול.
   2. In Hebrew, you make the same changes as in English.
   3. Yes, The changes are basically the same.
                E)
                        2) I was reading.
                        3) they were planning.
                        4) had arrived.
                        5) would have to.
                        6) she had lived.
                        7) would do.
                F) 
                        2) The student wanted to know if they had to answer all of the questions.
                        3) They asked us when the movie will start.
                        4) My friend asked if I studied for the test.
                        5) We wanted to know how much the concert tickets cost.
                        6) My parents wondered why I didn’t tell them.
                H) 
                        2) He requested that we turn off our cellphones.
                        3) He ordered us not to touch anything.
                        4) He informed us that there is a different tour at 2:00.
                        5) He asked us if we had any questions.
                        6) He instructed us to tell him what we knew about Renoir.
7) He warned us not to take photos in the museum.
        Part 3. “Listening”:
                New words: bacteria חיידקים, biologist ביולוג, crawl לזחול, extraordinary יוצא דופן, geologist גאולוג, incredible מדהים, insect חרק, seal off לאטום, time capsule קפסולת זמן.
                An Extraordinary Discovery:
   1. a geologist.
   2. making a map.
   3. an environment that was sealed off.
   4. They crawled.
   5. opening a time capsule, discovering a new part of the amazon rainforest.
   6. They didn’t have any eyes.
   7. bacteria.
                B)
                        2) geologist.
                        3) officially.
                        4) attend.
                        5) documentary.
                        6) extraordinary.
                        7) fascinating.
                C) I think people explore caves, in order to discover new things.
        Part 4. “Reading”: 
                New words: arrest(v) לעצור, cabinet קבינט, century מאה, consider להחשיב, custom מנהג, deadly מסוכן, diet(n) דיאטה, essential חיוני, exist קיים, heal לרפא, human בן אדם, lack(n) חוסר, preservative משמר, salt מלח, seasoning תבלין, store(v) לשמור, substance חומר, supernatural על טבעי, survival הישרדות, tax(n) מס, trade(v) מסחר, tradition מסורת, voyage מסע, wound(n) פצע, due to בגלל, play a role לשחק תפקיד.
                D)
   1. A lack of salt in the body is deadly.
   2. Athletes, hikers and soldiers are given examples of people who have to take salt pills to replace the sodium they lose when they sweat.
   3. A lot of Napoleon’s soldiers died because of a lack of salt.
   4. Salt is a good preservative because it absorbs moisture.
   5. The Ancient Egyptians used salt to dry fish and to preserve their mummies.
                E)
   1. China.
   2. England and France.
   3. Venice.
   4. Spain.
                F) 
                        Country/Culture/Religion | Custom/Tradition
                        Rome | Salt was offered to quests as a sign of friendship.
                        Judaism | It has been the custom for thousands of years to dip bread in salt.
                        Turkey | Some young women used to put salt in the coffee of a possible future husband. If he drank the coffee without showing displeasure, that meant he was kind and sensitive. If he made a face, the engagement could be canceled.
                G) Salary, Soldier, Salad.
                H.1)
   1. 5
   2. 4
   3. 2
   4. 4
   5. 3
                H.2)
   1. Introduction to salt.
   2. Salt and health.
   3. Preservation using salt.
   4. History of salt.
   5. Salt traditions.
   6. Salt words.
   7. Salt today.
                H.3) That salt was important across the globe.
                H.4) Preservation of food, salt was used to solve it, by absorbing the moisture using salt.
                A) 
                        2) Columbus’ voyage to the americas.
                        3) Superman
                        4) salt.
                        5) adding salt to beer.
                        6) ice.
                B) 
                        2) The police arrested them for stealing.
                        3) Vinegar is used to pickle cucumbers.
                        4) Would you consider meeting me for coffee after the game?
                        5) A human is a person.
                        6) A century lasts a hundred years.
                D.1) played a role, traded, bacteria, research, seasonings, traditional, combination, contain.
                D.2) Yes, I do think Middle Eastern food is delicious.
                D.3) It is a chunk of meat covered by breadcrumbs, it is seasoned with salt due to salt adding taste to it.
                Words that can be both nouns and verbs:
                2) חלום \ לחולם
                3) פחד \ לפחד
                4) קרב \ להילחם
                5) כוח \ להכריח
                6) חום \ לחמם
                7) ראיון \ לראיין
   8. קישור \ לקשר
   9. הודאה \ לשים לב
   10.  הצעה \ להציע
   11. צו \ לצות
   12.  הקלטה \ להקליט
   13.  לוח זמנים \ לרשום תאריך
   14.  ציון \ להבקיא
   15.  צורה \ לשנות
   16.  קול \ להשמיע
   17.  חליפה \ להתאים
   18.  מבט \ להסתקל
                E.1) 
                        2) lack (verb), lack (noun)
                        3) sign (noun), sign (verb)
                        4) store (verb), store (noun)
                        5) design (noun), design(verb)
                        6) search (verb), search (noun)
                E.2)
   1. a) My aim is to be rich.
b) You’re aiming at the wrong target.
   2. a) My dream is to be successful.
                                b) I’m dreaming of becoming a doctor.
   3. a) My worst fear is clowns.
                                b) I fear clowns.
   4. a) The fight sucked.
b)  I was fighting the final boss.
                E.3) 
                        2) suit, noun.
                        3) ordered, verb.
                        4) dreams, noun.
   5. fight, noun.
   6. sound, noun.
   7. interview, verb.
   8. shape, noun.
   9. offered, verb.
   10.  notice, verb.